Ingredients
===========
- 1 cup heavy cream
- 10 oz bittersweet chocolate (finely chopped)

Directions
==========
Heat the heavy cream in a 2-quart heavy-bottomed saucepan until bubbles begin 
to form around the edge of the pan. Make sure you chopped the chocolate as 
finely as possible to allow it to melt quickly and easily. Place the chopped 
chocolate in a medium-size mixing bowl. Make a ganache by pouring about half of 
the hot cream over the chocolate and letting it sit for 30 seconds to melt the 
chocolate. Then, slowly whisk until smooth and homogenous. Do not add all of 
the hot cream to the cold chocolate at once. The shock of the temperature 
extremes will cause the fat in the chocolate to separate. As the chocolate 
melts, you will see some elasticity if there is no fat separation. This means 
the chocolate still has an emulsion; the fat molecules are still holding 
together. If the ganache separates, it loses its elasticity, collapses, and 
becomes very liquid. I use a hand-held immersion blender to ensure a smooth 
ganache and to keep the emulsion of the chocolate. Add the remaining cream 
gradually and mix until all of the hot cream is incorporated and the ganache is 
smooth and homogenous.

If the ganache separates, it is very easy to fix. Simply add a small amount of 
cold cream and whisk well. This will bring the ganache back together. The 
ganache should be thick, shiny, and smooth. Add the desired flavoring and mix 
until fully incorporated. Pour the ganache onto a plastic wrap-covered baking 
sheet and spread evenly with a rubber spatula. Cover the ganache with plastic 
wrap and allow it to cool for at least 4 hours at room temperature. I usually 
make the ganache at the end of the day and let it cool overnight. As it cools, 
it will thicken and set.

When the ganache has cooled to the consistency of toothpaste, use an offset 
spatula to cover the cake layer with the ganache.

Notes
=====
I microwaved the ganache for 15s after I'd added about 2/3 of the cream, 
because there were still some chunks of chocolate that weren't melting.  This 
worked really well.
