Proofing is the final rise before the bread goes in the oven.  I found a good 
article on some of the science behind proofing, and how to know when the dough 
is ready to bake.  Everything that follows is pretty much a quote from that 
article:

http://www.seriouseats.com/2014/10/breadmaking-101-the-science-of-baking-bread-and-how-to-do-it-righ.html

In short, if we bake too early — or underproof our loaves — they'll be less 
flavorful than desired, and won't rise to their full potential. If we bake too 
late — or overproof our loaves — then we run the risk of developing off 
flavors, and our loaves may be so inflated with gas [and weakened by proteases] 
that their gluten structure is unable to support them, leading to loaf collapse 
during baking. 

So, how do we know when it's time to bake?

The volume test
===============
From the time we set our loaves for their final proof they should have 
increased in volume by at least half. If your loaves have doubled or more, this 
might mean we're approaching overproofing.

The feel test
=============
In my experience, the best way to judge this is to press on the center of the 
loaves with a lightly floured hand... Pay careful attention to how much your 
dough resists your hand. The exterior of the dough will always feel soft, even 
when underproofed. To get the most lift during baking, we need to make sure 
that the center of the loaf feels aerated as well. If, when pressed, the dough 
feels significantly denser in the middle, then it isn't time to bake. But if 
the dough offers no resistance whatsoever, then you might be overproofing them, 
and should bake immediately.

The poke test
=============
This is what it sounds like. Poke your loaf. Your finger should leave an 
imprint, but that imprint should gently bounce back and mostly disappear in a 
few seconds. If your finger leaves no impression, then the gluten is still very 
taught from shaping, and your dough needs more time. If your finger leaves an 
imprint indefinitely, bake immediately. 
